# northeast-alpine-35sites-ndvi
This repository contains code and data for spatiotemporal analysis of remotely sensed observations of the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) in the alpine zones of northeastern North America, 1984-2024. These files are used in Chipman et al. (in review). The repository includes the following content: shapefiles of alpine zone (AZ) polygons and proximal upper subalpine zone (USAZ) polygons for 35 sites; JavaScript code for Google Earth Engine (GEE), to extract Landsat time series data inside those polygons; R code to process the time series data; output files generated by the GEE code; output files generated by the R code; CSV text files with data on the sites; and a user guide to the R code.

# Authors
Jonathan W. Chipman, Jordon C. Tourville, and Irene H. Ko

# Citation
Chipman JW, Tourville JC, Ko IH. 2025. Long-term trends in greenness and landscape phenology in the alpine zone from remote sensing. Manuscript in review.

# Code
<li> GEE_code: This folder includes two JavaScript code files for Google Earth Engine (GEE), designed to extract and process Landsat imagery for a given site. To run this code, you will need to have the AZ_all and USAZ_all shapefiles (or equivalents) uploaded to GEE as table assets, and added to the scripts, along with the Landsat 5, 7, 8, and 9 Collection 2 Tier 1 Level 2 (surface reflectance) collections, and the JRC global surface water dataset. The code will export tabular time series (CSV text files, with spatial averages of NDVI for each zone at a given site, on each date) and gridded raster outputs (GeoTIFF files, with various derived products).
<li> R_code: This folder contains the code to process the CSV-format time series data exported by the GEE code. It performs robustness checks, phenological modeling, seasonality adjustment, trend analysis, and other operations.
<li> R_code_user_guide.pdf: This document provides a detailed description of all steps in the R code workflow.

# Data
<li> Shapefiles: This folder contains the vector shapefiles to be used as table assets in GEE. They can also be used in desktop GIS software for further analysis of the gridded output files from GEE.
<li> GEE_code_output: This folder contains output from the GEE data extraction code, for all 35 sites, grouped by (1) state/province, and then (2) site ID. These can be used as input to the R code. Before doing so, unzip the state/province zip files, combine the 3 Quebec parts in a single "QC" folder, and group all state/province folders in a single top-level folder (e.g., "input"). The location of that folder can be specified in the first step of the R code.
<li> R_code_output: This folder contains the main output files from the R code. See the R code user guide for explanations.
<li> 35_sites_info.csv and 03_sites_info.csv: These two text files include information about the sites for use in the R code.

# License
This work is licensed under the GNU Public License v3.
